Number Input revisions (#5497)
jpmorganchase/salt-ds: site/docs/components/number-input/examples.mdx

<LivePreview componentName="number-input" exampleName="Bordered" />

## Disabled

The `NumberInput` can be disabled to prevent any user interaction or input.

<LivePreview componentName="number-input" exampleName="Disabled" />

## Read-only

The `NumberInput` can be set to a read-only state using the `readOnly` prop, allowing users to highlight and copy the value without editing it.

By default, a dash ('-') serves as the empty marker. You can customize this marker by using the `emptyReadOnlyMarker` prop if your application needs a different symbol.

**Note:** To address browser and screen reader limitations in conveying a read-only state, the `NumberInput`'s role is changed to `textbox` when set to read-only.

> ### Best practice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Best practices
```

<LivePreview componentName="number-input" exampleName="Validation" />

> ## Decimal Scale

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Decimal scale
```

The `decimalScale` prop allows you to define the number of decimal places displayed in the `NumberInput`. By default, the decimal scale is determined by the greater number of decimal places between the `step` value and the `value` or `defaultValue` provided.

### Best practices

- when dealing with currencies such as pounds sterling or U.S. dollars in a retail context, limit the decimal places to two, as these currencies typically require only two decimal places for accuracy. Avoid using three decimal places in such scenarios to maintain consistency and relevance.

<LivePreview componentName="number-input" exampleName="Decimals" />

> To provide a fixed scale provide a custom format function.

Reviewer 3: Either a comma should be added here "To provide a fixed scale, provide a custom format function" or not sure about double "provide" - maybe "To use a fixed scale, provide a custom format function"?

<LivePreview componentName="number-input" exampleName="FixedDecimalScale" />

## Formatting

The `NumberInput` component offers the ability to format its value using the `format` callback prop. This feature is typically used in conjunction with a `parse` callback, which can be used to determine the valid input format and extract the numerical value of the formatted input.

> ### Best Practice

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Best practice
```

> The `format` callback is designed to work seamlessly with most formatting libraries, such as Intl.NumberFormat. It is strongly recommended to provide a `parse` callback alongside `format` to ensure that valid input is entered and its correct numerical value is derived, maintaining precision and consistency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `format` callback is designed to work seamlessly with most formatting libraries, such as `Intl.NumberFormat`. It is strongly recommended to provide a `parse` callback alongside `format` to ensure that valid input is entered and its correct numerical value is derived, maintaining precision and consistency.
```

**Note**: If a `format` callback is provided, it will override the `decimalScale` prop, allowing you to define custom rules for decimal places directly within your formatting logic.

### Thousands separator

To make large numbers easier to read, you can use a combination of `format` and `parse` callbacks to insert commas and separate thousands.

<LivePreview
  componentName="number-input"
  exampleName="FormattingThousandsSeparator"
/>

### Compact notation

> Large numbers can be transformed into their compact forms to be used in, for example, charts or other data visualizations. You can use `format` to convert the numerical value into its shortened form and `parse` to convert the shortened form back to the numerical value. The example below supports the following conversion:

Reviewer 3: Would reorder this sentence a little bit for clarity and tie it directly with the headline (compact notation for shortened form)

```suggestion
You can use `format` to convert the numerical value into its compact notation and `parse` to convert compact notation back to its numerical value. This is useful when used with charts or other forms of data visualization. The example below supports the following compact notations:

```

<LivePreview componentName="number-input" exampleName="Validation" />

## Decimal Scale

The `decimalScale` prop allows you to define the number of decimal places displayed in the `NumberInput`. By default, the decimal scale is determined by the greater number of decimal places between the `step` value and the `value` or `defaultValue` provided.

### Best practices

- when dealing with currencies such as pounds sterling or U.S. dollars in a retail context, limit the decimal places to two, as these currencies typically require only two decimal places for accuracy. Avoid using three decimal places in such scenarios to maintain consistency and relevance.

<LivePreview componentName="number-input" exampleName="Decimals" />

To provide a fixed scale provide a custom format function.

<LivePreview componentName="number-input" exampleName="FixedDecimalScale" />

## Formatting

The `NumberInput` component offers the ability to format its value using the `format` callback prop. This feature is typically used in conjunction with a `parse` callback, which can be used to determine the valid input format and extract the numerical value of the formatted input.

> ### Best Practice

Author: Maybe not here but will add higher up in the docs.
